---
title: "Multi-Pollutant Ground-level Air Pollution Prediction through Deep MeteoGCN-ConvLSTM"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-meteo-gcn
excerpt: 'Air pollution is the fourth-largest threat to human health. The harmful effects of air pollutants have cost the global economy nearly $3 trillion. It is imperative that a solution for mitigating the harmful effects of the most pervasive ground-level air pollutants—carbon monoxide (CO), nitric oxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO₂), ozone (O₃), and particulate matter 2.5 (PM2.5)—is implemented, especially in urban areas. Recent advances in deep learning, such as the Convolutional Long Short Term Memory (ConvLSTM) architecture, are capable of learning complex spatiotemporal patterns with multisource data. We propose a novel sequential encoder-decoder ConvLSTM architecture capable of predicting hourly CO, NO, NO₂, O₃, and PM2.5 levels spatially and continuously over Los Angeles. Our model utilizes multisource satellite imagery collected from the ESA Tropospheric Monitoring…'
date: 2022-12-14
venue: '2022 International Conference on Computational Science and Computational Intelligence (CSCI)'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10216524'
citation: 'P. Muthukumar et al., "Multi-Pollutant Ground-level Air Pollution Prediction through Deep MeteoGCN-ConvLSTM," 2022 International Conference on Computational Science and Computational Intelligence (CSCI), Las Vegas, NV, USA, 2022, pp. 26-34, doi: 10.1109/CSCI58124.2022.00012.'
---
Air pollution is the fourth-largest threat to human health. The harmful effects of air pollutants have cost the global economy nearly $3 trillion. It is imperative that a solution for mitigating the harmful effects of the most pervasive ground-level air pollutants—carbon monoxide (CO), nitric oxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO₂), ozone (O₃), and particulate matter 2.5 (PM2.5)—is implemented, especially in urban areas. Recent advances in deep learning, such as the Convolutional Long Short Term Memory (ConvLSTM) architecture, are capable of learning complex spatiotemporal patterns with multisource data. We propose a novel sequential encoder-decoder ConvLSTM architecture capable of predicting hourly CO, NO, NO₂, O₃, and PM2.5 levels spatially and continuously over Los Angeles. Our model utilizes multisource satellite imagery collected from the ESA Tropospheric Monitoring…